## Feedback (W1-W4)

1. **Too many superficial answers**

    Often, responses are overly long and go round and round without getting to the meat of what the question is trying to ascertain. For instance, the example below from [Weekly Exercise 3](https://github.com/TienSFU25/2650-weekly-exercises/tree/master/w3):

    ```ts
    // What do these programs do? 
    // Explain in your own words.
    var items = [1, 2, 3]
    var result = []

    for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
        result.push(() => items[i])
    }

    // i === 3 here

    console.log(result.map((x) => x()))
    ```

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > **Possible response**: 
    >  The `for` loop is executed three(3) times - `i = 0, i = 1, i = 2`. Even though the `for` loop is not executed after that, `i` is still incremented one last time (`i = 3`). Given that `i` was declared with the `var` keyword, it means the variable is globally scoped (functionally scoped if the above code is wrapped in a function). That means `i === 3`, even after the `for` loop. The subsequent `.map` then tries to access `items[3]`, which of course is `undefined`.
    
    > [!TIP]
    > I've been extra verbose here, but the first sentence is arguably not even necessary.

2. **A regurgitation of the commands or steps already provided as part of a question does not amount to an explanation**.


3. Pure function

    For a function to be pure, two things must be true:
    
    1. **The result should be deterministic for a given input**. That is, the same input should always return the same output.
        ```ts
        const magic = (num) => Math.random() * num

        magic(5) // 4.51338717410099
        magic(5) // 2.9784677990589623
        magic(5) // 3.4058784345254614
        magic(5) // 1.5886994620964068
        ```
    
        Notice that even though the `magic` function has no side effects, the output is different every time, for the same input. The result here is non-deterministic.
    
        To make this function deterministic we could instead do:
        ```ts
        const magic = (num) => Math.PI * num
        ```
        > [!IMPORTANT]
        > Please don't name functions as `magic` or the like, this is strictly for illustrative purposes.

    2. Second, and often forgotten, but equally important - **there should be no side effects**. 

        For instance, the following function is **NOT** pure, because there are side effects:
        ```ts
        const numbers = [1, 2, 3]
        
        const double = (items) => {
            for(let i = 0; i < items.length; i++)
                items[i] *= 2
        
            return items
        }
    
        const doubledNumbers = double(numbers)
        
        console.log(numbers) // [2, 4, 6]
        console.log(doubledNumbers) // [2, 4, 6]
        ```
    
        To make the function pure, we'll have to do:
    
        ```ts
        const numbers = [1, 2, 3]
        
        const double = (items) => {
            const doubledItems = []
            for(let i = 0; i < items.length; i++)
                doubledItems.push(items[i] * 2)
                
            return doubledItems
        }
        
        const doubledNumbers = double(numbers)
        
        console.log(numbers) // [1, 2, 3]
        console.log(doubledNumbers) // [2, 4, 6]
        ```
    
        Notice how there are no side effects this time - the initial `numbers` list was unaffected by the call to `double()`.



4. When a solution is submitted it should include the `node_moduules` directory. The `node_modules` directory will be generated by a `npm install` or `yarn install`, assuming the `package.json` is part of the submission.

5. Similarly, a solution without the corresponding `package.json` cannot be run locally, because we are not able to install the required dependencies. 

    > [!WARNING]
    > Forgetting to include the `package.json` file will likely result in a zero(0) for future submissions.


6. If something should be persisted to `localStorage` or to some server-side storage (in-memory, or otherwise), a simple reload of the webpage should not affect the data displayed.